Removed redundancy from the rdm split chapters (#984)
alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way: book/content/rdm/spreadsheets.md

# Using spreadsheets for research data

Spreadsheets, such as Microsoft Excel files and its Open Source alternative [LibreOffice](www.libreoffice.org), are commonly used to collect, store, manipulate, analyse, and share research data.

> Spreadsheets are convenient and easy-to-use tools for these tasks but are not amenable to reproducibility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spreadsheets are convenient and easy-to-use tools for these tasks but are not facilitate reproducibility
```

Even if these errors are avoided, if the spreadsheet is poorly organised then it may be [difficult for collaborators](https://luisdva.github.io/pls-don't-do-this/) to easily [read-in and re-use](#FAIR) your
data for further analysis.

It's often not practical to avoid the use of spreadsheets altogether but there are some simple steps that can be taken
to mitigate their flaws.
The following principles, provide some practical advice to ensure your data is clearly organised and human- and machine-readable {% cite Broman2018data --suppress_author %}:

- Be consistent
- Write dates as YYYY-MM-DD
- Don't leave any cells empty, if there is no data use "NA" (Not Available)
- Put each observation/sample in its own cell/row
- Put each variable in a column
- Each cell should contain information on one thing: separate multiple pieces of information to different cells
- Create a data dictionary

> - Don't include calculations in the raw data files: leave the raw data alone!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Don't include calculations in the raw data files: make the file with raw data read-only!
```

> - Don’t use font color or highlighting, consider adding another variable/column for this information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Don’t use font, color or highlighting, consider adding another variable/column for this information
```

> - Choose good/clear names for observations and variables and make sure there are no spaces in names

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Choose descriptinve names for observations and variables and make sure there are no spaces or special characters in the names
```

- Make backups
- Use data validation to avoid data entry mistakes

> - Save the data in text files (such as .CSV - comma-separated values) to ensure interoperability with other software programmes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Save the data in text files (such as `.csv` - comma-separated values) to ensure interoperability with other software programmes.
```

You can explain the file naming convention in a README.txt file, so that it will also become clear to others what the file names mean.

> To learn more about spreadsheet organisation, have a look at the Data Carpentry lessons for [Social Scientists](https://datacarpentry.org/spreadsheets-socialsci/) and [Ecologists](https://datacarpentry.org/spreadsheet-ecology-lesson/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about data organisation in spreadsheets, have a look at the Data Carpentry lessons for [Social Scientists](https://datacarpentry.org/spreadsheets-socialsci/) and [Ecologists](https://datacarpentry.org/spreadsheet-ecology-lesson/).
```
